Give 2 arguments for the hypothesis that J.B. has cystic fibrosis (has 2 mutated copies of the CFTR gene).
Give one argument for the hypothesis that J.B.'s mother has 1 or 2 mutated copies of the CFTR gene.
Give one argument for the hypothesis that the mother does not have 2 mutated copies of the CFTR gene.
Give one argument for the hypothesis that J.B.'s mother has 1 normal and 1 mutated copy of the CFTR gene.
@
J. B. has cystic fibrosis (has 2 mutated copies of the CFTR gene).
J.B.'s mother does not have any CFTR gene mutations (both copies of the CFTR gene are normal).
J.B.'s mother has 1 or 2 mutated copies of the CFTR gene.
J.B.'s mother is a carrier of the CFTR gene mutation (has 1 normal copy and 1 mutated copy of the CFTR gene).
J.B.'s mother does not have 2 mutated copies of the CFTR gene.
J. B.'s mother has cystic fibrosis (has 2 mutated copies of the CFTR gene).
J.B.'s father does not have any CFTR gene mutations (both copies of the CFTR gene are normal).
J.B.'s father is a carrier of the CFTR gene mutation (has one normal copy and one mutated copy of the CFTR gene).
J. B.'s father has cystic fibrosis (has two mutated copies of the CFTR gene in all of his cells).
@
Patient: J.B., a 2-year old girl.
History of respiratory problems:  During her second year, J.B. developed a chronic cough and has had frequent upper respiratory infections. 
J.B.'s mother does not have a history of respiratory problems.
J.B.'s father does not have a history of respiratory problems.
Test result:  J.B.'s chloride level is 75 mmol/L.
J.B.'s 5-year old brother B.B. was diagnosed as having cystic fibrosis.
@
Cystic fibrosis is the name of a disease caused by having two mutated copies of the CFTR gene.  When both copies of CFTR are mutated, it cannot perform its normal function. 
People with CFTR gene dysfunction often have viscous secretions in the lungs, which provides a medium for growth of bacteria, and which may result in frequent respiratory infections.
Dysfunction of CFTR may affect the pancreas. Pancreatic abnormality may result in malnutrition and poor growth.
Cystic fibrosis is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, which means that an individual with cystic fibrosis inherited two mutated copies of the CFTR gene: one from the mother and one from the father. 
If one parent is a carrier (has one copy of the mutation) and the other parent has no copies of the mutation, each offspring has a 25 percent  chance of being a carrier.
Although cystic fibrosis classically manifests in early childhood, approximately 4 percent of patients are diagnosed in adulthood. 
In the absence of functional CFTR, sweat has an increased sodium chloride content. Most patients with cystic fibrosis show an elevated level of sweat chloride (more than 60 mmol/L).
