Give two arguments for (PRO) diagnosis that J.B. has cystic fibrosis.
Give one argument against (CON) diagnosis that J.B.'s brother has cystic fibrosis.
@
J. B. has cystic fibrosis (has two mutated copies of the CFTR gene in all of her cells).
J.B.'s brother has cystic fibrosis (has two mutated copies of the CFTR gene in all of his cells).
J.B.'s mother does not have any CFTR gene mutations (both copies of the CFTR gene are normal in all of her cells).
J.B.'s mother has one normal copy of the CFTR gene in all of her cells.
J.B.'s mother has one mutated copy of the CFTR gene in all of her cells.
J. B.'s mother has cystic fibrosis (has two mutated copies of the CFTR gene in all of her cells).
@
History of poor growth:  During infancy, J.B. had diarrhea and colic. According to a recent physical examination, her weight and height plotted less than the 3rd percentile.
History of respiratory problems:  During her second year, J.B. developed a chronic cough and has had frequent upper respiratory infections.
J.B.'s mother does not have a history of poor growth or respiratory problems.
J.B.'s father does not have a history of poor growth or respiratory problems.
J.B.'s 25-year-old brother does not have a history of poor growth or respiratory problems.
Test result:  J.B.'s chloride level is 75 mmol/L.
Ethnicity of mother:  N. European
Ethnicity of father:  N. European
@
Cystic fibrosis is the name of a disease caused by having two mutated copies of the CFTR gene in each cell.  When both copies of CFTR are mutated, it cannot perform its normal function.
The viscous secretions in the lungs of patients with CFTR dysfunction provide a medium for growth of bacteria, which can result in frequent respiratory infections.
Dysfunction of CFTR can affect the pancreas. Poor growth may result in part from malnutrition from pancreatic exocrine insufficiency.
Cystic fibrosis is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, which means that an individual with cystic fibrosis inherited two mutated copies of the CFTR gene: one from the mother and one from the father.
One copy of each gene is inherited from the mother and the other copy is inherited from the father.
A carrier of an autosomal recessive genetic condition is someone with one mutated and one normal copy of the gene.
A carrier of an autosomal recessive genetic condition is not usually affected by the condition, but may pass a copy of the mutation to his or her offspring.
If both parents are carriers, each offspring has a 25% chance of inheriting two copies of the mutation and being affected by the condition.
If one parent has the genetic condition (has two mutated copies of the gene) and the other parent is a carrier, each offspring has a 75% chance of inheriting two copies of the mutation and being affected by the condition.
If one parent is a carrier and the other parent has no copies of the mutation, each offspring has a 25% chance of being a carrier.
For North Americans who do not have a family history of cystic fibrosis and are of northern European ancestry, their empiric risk for each being a carrier is approximately 1 in 25.
Although cystic fibrosis classically manifests in early childhood, approximately 4 percent of patients are diagnosed in adulthood.
In the absence of functional CFTR, sweat has an increased sodium chloride content. Most patients with cystic fibrosis show an elevated level of sweat chloride (more than 60 mmol/L).

